---
layout: page
title: Detecting hidden objects through disorder
complement: Phys. Rev. Lett. 127, 253902 (2021)
img: assets/img/highlights/prl2021.png
importance: 3
related_publications: true
---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/highlights/prl2021_highres.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
Intensity distributions experimentally measured with the optimal incident field when the hidden target is absent (left) and present (right). Because of complex absorption and scattering processes, these distributions appear as speckle patterns. Despite this complexity, the optimal light field is strongly affected by the presence of the target, which allows us to detect this target with a minimum rate of error.
</div>

<p align="justify"> 
In free space, it is easy to determine whether an object is present or not by measuring the light it scatters. However, whenever this object is surrounded by a complex scattering environment, this task becomes extremely challenging due to the absorption and multiple scattering processes that occur within the system. 
</p>

<p align="justify"> 
In this work, we theoretically and experimentally demonstrate how to detect an object hidden inside a disordered complex system with an exceptionally low photon flux. This is achieved by identifying and generating probe fields that are specifically optimized for this purpose. Light is guided through the disorder in an optimal way, not only to strongly interact with the object, but also to be efficiently detected by the observer. These results allow one to perform minimally-destructive measurements even in complex scattering systems, with potential applications for the metrology of semi-conductor devices and for the characterization of biological tissues.

</p>

<p align="justify"> 
This study has been published in Physical Review Letters {% cite bouchet_optimal_2021 %}.
</p>
